[ Chopping ]
Oh, hi, honey.
Breakfast will be ready
in a minute.
Aaah! My hand!
Aaah!
Very funny, Mom.
I know it’s Halloween.
Nice fake hand.
[ Phil ]
Aaah! Aaah!
[ Screaming ]
[ Both Laughing ]
We love Halloween,
especially Claire.
It’s my favorite holiday.
Ever since I was a kid,
I loved scary things.
If there was
a new horror movie in town,
I was the first in line.
One, please.
[ Chuckles ]
Then I met Phil.
Two, please.
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
Okay.
All right, do me.
Do me, do me, do me.
Cam, I have to say,
I feel kinda sexy.
[ Fabric Squeaks ]
Well, squeaky sexy, but–
You know I’d be enjoying
this more if Halloween wasn’t
such a tough day for me.
But I want you
to go to work...
and knock their socks off.
My last job was
at a pretty conservative
law firm.
No one there would ever
dress up for Halloween.
But apparently,
at this new company–
Right now I’m thinkin’
either vampire or werewolf.
Every year it’s harder
to decide.
Wait, wait, wait. I’m sorry.
So people really come
to work in costumes here?
Are you kidding?
It’s epic, bro.
Epic.
I’m already the new guy.
I don’t want to be
the non-participation guy too.
Not on my watch.
Unfortunately, Halloween
was marred for me personally
by an incident long ago.
Now it’s just a day
I have to get through.
So you said.
All right, so everybody has
to be here at 5:30 to rehearse
our house of horrors.
- You guys have
your costumes ready?
- Yeah, but it’s a secret.
Me and Manny came up
with something together.
I love that.
Can I have some candy?
No. How about you, Alex?
I haven’t really thought
about it. I’ve got, like,
three huge exams tomorrow.
Honey, you can’t just
slap something together
at the last minute.
If you gave this costume
half as much time and attention
as you give your homework,
you wouldn’t be in this
situation.
Can I remind you
you have one child
who’s not mediocre?
Check it.
I’m a scary black cat.
The only person
that costume scares is me.
Go change it.
To what?
I don’t know.
One of your old costumes.
[ Beeping ]
Honey, trust me.
I am sparing you
an entire day...
of guys asking you
if you have a rough tongue.
Eww.
- [ Jay ] Yello.
- Hi, Dad. It’s me.
I wanted to make sure
you and Gloria were ready
for tonight.
What’s tonight?
What do you mean,
what is tonight?
Dad, it’s Halloween.
You know this.
Calm down, Morticia.
I’m just teasing you.
We’ll be there.
Yeah, but in costume this time.
You can’t just show up
with a backwards baseball cap...
and call yourself Snoop Dogg,
like you did last year.
I didn’t even know
who that guy was.
Haley turned my hat around
and told me to say it.
I thought
he was a dog detective.
Listen, don’t worry.
We got the whole thing
worked out.
Bye-bye.
[ Beeps ]
[ Phone Ringing ]
- Hola, Jay.
- Where are you?
I have Manny in the carpool,
and we’re going to the dropout.
Dropout– You mean
that Eddie kid?
Yeah, he’s a moron.
No, the dropout,
where you drop the kids
in the school.
She means "drop-off."
That’s what I said.
Listen. Did you ever do anything
about costumes for Claire’s
thing tonight?
I’m going to pick them up
this afternoon.
You’re going to be
a gargle,
and I’m going to be an evil
village bruja.
- I know less now
than I did before I asked.
- Hmm.
A bruja is a witch,
and a gargle is a gargle.
- She means "gargoyle."
- That’s what I said.
As long as you got it covered,
because if Claire
doesn’t get her Halloween,
she turns into a real
rhymes with bruja.
Oh, no. No, no, no.
I’m the only one.
[ Chattering ]
[ Murmuring ]
[ Man ] Have lunch?
I’ll let you wear my fangs.
[ Woman ]
Hey, someone’s got the spirit.
[ Laughs ]
Look at those tools.
Every year.
What a couple
of douches.
Oh, no.
[ Line Ringing ]
[ Beeps ]
Hello?
There are exactly three people
in costume here–
a tool, a douche and me–
and I don’t have time
to go home and change.
Calm down.
Did you bring in
the dry cleaning
from last night?
Are you really getting on me
about the dry clean–
Oh, I have suits in the trunk.
Look at that.
Yesterday’s lazy
cures today’s crazy.
[ Musically ]
Yes, thank you. Thank you.
[ Beeps ]
[ Muttering ]
Okay.
[ Fabric Squeaks ]
Hey, Charlie.
There you are. I need you
in the Lampkin meeting.
- If I could just maybe–
- Five minutes.
Okay.
Okay, hey–
First legal question.
Yeah?
Can I fire those idiots
for no reason?
Oh, my gosh.
Those are some major guns
you got there.
[ Stammers ]
[ Squeaks ]
Why won’t this–
[ Footsteps ]
Hey, Jerry.
Hey, Phil.
Lookin’ good.
Thanks. Wait’ll you see
what we got planned for tonight.
Claire and I are goin’
as Corpse Bride and groom–
As if there’s any other kind.
Am I right?
[ Chuckles ]
I’m saying
that marriage kills you.
Judy left me.
Oh, my God. I am so sorry.
When someone your age dies,
what’s the first thing
you wanna know?
Died of what? Right?
You wanna hear it was something
that could never happen to you.
It’s the same with divorce.
Tell me it was booze,
cheating, physical abuse–
no problem.
I’m a monogamous social drinker,
and Claire only sleep-hits me.
Just don’t tell me
it came from out of the blue.
I was totally blindsided.
I guess
somewhere along the way,
she stopped
finding me delightful.
Well, that’s– That’s coconuts.
You’re super-delightful.
Not to Judy.
She used to laugh
at everything I had to say,
but now I can’t even remember
what her laugh sounds like.
Claire can do it.
It’s uncan–
I should go back inside.
I have a dish to wash.
Okay, but, hey, Jerry,
if you need anything–
All right?
I’m your rock.
[ Shrieking ]
Ohh!
You are not gonna believe this.
Judy just left Jerry.
Oh, yeah.
She was so unhappy.
How’s he doing?
He’s not taking it
as well as you are.
Oh, I’m sorry, honey.
I don’t mean to be insensitive.
I’ve just got a lot to get done.
I don’t
find you insensitive.
I find you delightful.
Do you find me delightful?
Oh, God, I just remembered–
Jerry’s supposed to be
our porch scarecrow.
Can you ask him
if he’ll still do it?
He’s kind of a mess
right now.
Yeah, but... it might
make him feel better
to be around people.
I’ll try, but his whole world
just turned upside down.
Can you imagine?
One minute
you’re happily married.
The next minute
you’re completely by yourself–
I don’t need excuses.
I need this lawsuit
to go away.
Now who’s responsible
for the Keith deposition?
[ Muffled ]
Uh, well, I was, sir.
but in my defense, I was told–
Take those stupid fangs out,
Dale.
Sorry.
For starters,
it’s daytime.
Vampires sleep
during the day–
which you may soon
have plenty of time for.
I’m sorry, but I was told
that we didn’t need Keith.
Who told you that?
[ Stammering ]
I-I may have–
[ Squeaks ]
I may have done that, sir.
That’s disappointing.
But at least
Mitchell’s new here.
Twilight, you’re not,
so get it done.
Meeting adjourned.
Client’s waiting for us
in my office.
We’re already late.
Let’s roll.
Wow. You’ve really
been hittin’ the gym.
Yeah, well–
[ Squeaking ]
What the hell is that noise?
Every time I tried
to get out of that costume,
I got dragged
into another meeting.
It was the worst Halloween ever.
Really, Mitchell?
The worst Halloween ever?
You had squeaky thighs.
I lost a childhood.
Jay! This came for you.
Oh, hi, honey. What is it?
I called your secretary
and told her...
to order you some crackers
and those cheeses
that you like.
The tiny little ones.
Thanks.
Did you pick up
my gargle costume too?
Are you making fun of me?
No.
First Manny correcting me,
and now you?
If I have a problem,
I want to know, Jay.
Honey, look.
English is your second language.
You’re doin’ great.
Yeah, you’re not helping
by protecting my feelings.
I want you to be honest with me.
Okay, well,
I may have noticed...
some tiny little mistakes
you might want
to take a look at.
Like what?
Just little
mispronunciations.
Like, for example,
last night you said we live
in a "doggy-dog" world.
So?
It’s "dog-eat-dog" world.
Yeah, but–
[ Chuckles ]
that doesn’t make any sense.
Who wants
to live in a world
where dogs eat each other?
Doggy-dog world
is a beautiful world
full of little puppies.
[ Sighs ]
What else do I say wrong?
Well, it’s not
"blessings in the skies."
It’s "blessings in disguise."
What else?
"Carpal tunnel syndrome"
is not
"carpool tunnel syndrome."
And what else?
It’s not "vo-lump-uous."
Okay, enough.
I know
that I have an accent,
but people understand me
just fine.
What the hell is this?
I told you, Jay.
I called your secretary
and told her to order you
a box of baby cheeses.
Oh, so now
that is my fault too.
Can you tell Claire
that I’m not really up
for being a scarecrow?
Judy and I
used to love Halloween.
It’s her favorite holiday.
Huh.
You know?
Gosh. I hate to think of you
sitting in there alone,
running through all this
in your head– what could you
have done differently?
What could you
It’s actually a little hard
for me to talk about.
Don’t push me away.
I’m not Judy.
I could have been
more spontaneous.
Uh-huh.
I could have tried
to have been more fun
and sexy,
like it was in the old days.
Spontaneous and sexy.
I got it. Yup.
Remember.
I’m here for you, okay?
[ Shrieking ]
Oh! Son of a–
What the hell is that?
What? You told me
to put on an old costume.
Not from when
you were eight.
Are you trying to get candy
or Japanese businessmen?
Change it. Go.
Jerry is a no-go
on the ’crow.
You’ve been over there
this whole time?
Yeah.
He was venting.
I couldn’t break free.
God. You are sexy.
Honey?
Not so fast.
I don’t think
we’re done here, my darlin’.
Sweet pea,
I need to get down.
Oh, we can get down.
We can get way down.
Oh, God! Phil!
[ Squeaking ]
No. No, no, no, no, no!
[ Water Dripping ]
[ Groans ]
Okay.
[ Blowing ]
[ Shuts Off ]
No, no. No.
[ Chattering ]
No.
[ Mutters ]
Okay.
[ Cart Wheels Squeaking ]
[ Door Opens ]
[ Door Closes ]
[ Whispering ]
No. No, no, no, no.
Okay.
Okay, focus, Mitchell.
Focus, focus.
[ Phone Ringing ]
[ Beeps ]
Hello?
I’m trapped in a men’s room,
and all I have on
is the Spider-Man suit.
Hot. Who is this?
Somebody took my shirt,
and all the rest of my clothes
are all toilety.
- I’m screwed.
- Why don’t you just
tell Charlie the truth?
I can’t.
I already messed up once today,
and I can’t risk it.
I have another suit
in my trunk,
but I can’t get to the car
without going through
the office.
You know what’s ironic?
Who could really help you now
is Spider-Man.
He’s here.
[ Groans ]
Okay. Okay. Okay.
No. No, no, no, no, no.
[ Horn Honking ]
No, no, no.
Okay. Okay.
[ Honking Continues ]
[ Luke ]
Behold my creation!
Monster, do my bidding.
I do as you command,
master.
Okay, Mom, you cannot
have a problem with this.
I’m Mother Teresa.
- Are you kidding me?
- What? I’m her
back when she was hot.
I will pay you $10
to go put on more clothes.
Bet it’s the first time
you ever heard that one.
Okay, you know what?
Here. Here we go.
Let’s just cover you up.
All right, now.
I just wanna run through this
really quick with everybody.
Uh, first it’s
"Trick or treat,"
and then Phil–
"Come in, if you dare."
Right, and then Dad does
the thunder and the lightning
and the fog.
Usher the children in,
past Alex in her cage–-
I’m in a cage?
Yes.
You’re in a house of horrors,
being held against your will.
Yeah, I know.
So why do we need the cage?
And then Gloria pops up
as the evil village bruja,
and she says–
[ Imitating Gloria ]
"Welcome to your nightmare."
[ Cackling ]
[ Normal Voice ]
And then Cam and Haley
do their thing.
Kids get their candy.
They are ushered out.
They think it’s all over,
but it’s not–
because out on the porch,
the scarecrow pops to life–
Pow! For one final "aah!"
And that’s Mitchell.
You’re the scarecrow.
Oh, no.
No. I was in a costume all day.
It was awful.
It’s nothing compared
to when I was–
You don’t own bad Halloweens.
Don’t I?
We get it, Cam.
Hard day.
Mitchell, please.
The costume’s in the kitchen.
Come on.
[ Groans ]
All right.
Claire. Claire.
Before you go, I just
want you to know–
Okay, the wig.
I love you more–
That’s-That’s–
Thanks, honey.
You’re my best friend!
[ Jay ]
Hey, guys.
Hey.
Wow. God, you guys look great.
[ Flat Accent ]
Thank you, Phil.
I try my best.
You look
very dead-like.
Gloria, stop it.
I said I was sorry.
Oh, no, no, Jay.
For now on, I only
speakin’ proper American,
so I don’t embarrass you.
Did she just get back
from the dentist?
She’s mad at me
because I told her...
sometimes people
can’t understand her.
Make it right, Jay.
We’re all just hanging
by a thread.
Hey, Dad!
Oh, you look great.
Oh, good.
Okay, Gloria’s in position.
Hi, Gloria. Here you go.
Right back here.
Claire, I don’t know that
I’m feeling up to this.
Why, Cam?
What happened
that is so awful...
you simultaneously
can’t speak of it...
and yet can’t stop
talking about it?
I can’t. It’s too emotional.
Okay. Some other time.
I was 10.
Oh, God.
Dressed as Quasimodo,
on a front porch...
with my best friend,
Timmy Reglar– a Ghostbuster.
There was a bucket
of candy with a sign.
It said "Take one."
One.
- Timmy took the entire bucket
and put it in his bag.
- Mmm.
Timmy didn’t play by the rules.
It’s what I liked
and feared about him.
Oh.
Then the bag broke.
As a crowd of kids
rounded the corner,
saw the pile of candy,
Timmy said, "Cam did it!"
[ Children ]
Trick or treat!
Oh, good. Aren’t you glad
you got that out?
Okay, everybody,
our first victims.
This is not a rehearsal.
[ Whispers ]
You ready? You ready?
Yes. Yes.
Okay.
[ Modulated Voice ]
Come in, if you dare.
[ Gloria Coughs ]
Dad.
[ Jay ]
Huh? Oh. Let me see–
Thank you for joining us
on our–-
No, no, no.
First the thunder
and the lightning.
Yeah, right. I got it.
Perfect.
Thank you for joining us
on our special night.
Other children
haven’t fared so well.
[ Singsong ]
Welcome to your nightmare.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
What the hell is that?
Can we just get
our candy?
Okay, but beware of the fog,
for you might not be able
to see ahead.
[ Gasps ]
Boo.
Timmy starting running.
I wanted to run too,
but my hunch got stuck
on a rosebush,
and that’s when I fell.
I fell hard.
[ Boy ]
I can see his feet.
Okay, here.
Here, children,
have some candy.
Happy Halloween.
[ All Groaning ]
Okay, that was bad.
That was a bad start.
Uh, first of all, Dad,
thunder, lightning,
fog cue–
And we skipped Alex
altogether.
And Gloria, since when
do you speak English?
Oh, so now you have
a problem with the way I speak?
Like father, like daughter
in this dog-eat-dog family.
[ Mouthing Words ]
[ Children ]
Trick or treat!
Okay, places! Places!
Good. Mitchell’s good.
[ Modulated Voice ]
Honey,
I love you so much–
Not now. Not now.
Come in,
if you dare.
Dad.
[ Jay ]
What?
Dad!
Oh, right, right.
[ Thunderclaps ]
Phil, that’s you.
No, Dad–
Fog, fog.
Thank you for joining us
on our special night.
Other children
haven’t fared so well.
Oh, help me. Help me.
[ Singsong ]
Welcome to your nightmare.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Now your treats
are over here,
but with all the fog,
you may not be able
to see... ahead.
And everyone
was screaming,
"That’s him! Get Quasimodo!"
And then the townspeople
started chasing me.
That’s when I wet my pants!
[ Sobbing ]
I wet my pants!
I wet my pants.
This place is weird.
Yeah.
Let’s go.
Yeah, come on.
[ Blow Lands ]
Mother of God!
Son of a–
What is wrong
with everyone?
Cam, "townspeople"?
Really?
I lived on a farm.
They lived in town.
They were the townspeople.
Dad– Dad,
it goes lightning,
thunder, fog cue.
This whole thing
is a colossal fog cue.
[ Gloria ]
Claire just doesn’t
understand, Cam.
Maybe she’s never
been picked on
for been different.
When, Gloria?
When have you ever
been picked on
for "been different"?
Ask the gargle.
What is she saying?
Gloria!
- [ Luke ]
Think she went insane.
- She’s not insane!
She’s my mother.
I’m your mother now!
Gloria, I wanna
tell you a story...
about a guy eating
in a diner, alone.
Behind him he hears
a woman talking.
He doesn’t turn around.
Five minutes, 10 minutes,
just listening for the woman,
the life in her voice.
And before he even sees her,
he realizes he’s fallen in love.
Now I give you a guess
who that guy is.
[ Mitchell ]
Oh, my dad was–
[ Screams ]
[ Groans ]
Oh, my God!
- You know what?
I’m just gonna go.
- No. Come on, Cam.
Uh, if Uncle Cam’s leaving,
I’m just gonna go upstairs
and study.
Yeah, I have a party
to go to, so–
[ Groans ]
She punched me in the face!
[ Normal Voice ] He came
out of nowhere, and he scared
the baby cheeses out of me.
Hey, you’re talking
normal again.
Ay. I love the story
about the old man.
Nobody said "old."
Oh, Cam,
can we please just go?
Yes.
Yeah, go.
Please. I don’t care.
[ Normal Voice ]
Oh, Claire–
No. No. I’m done!
I’m done.
I’m not done,
so not done.
Look, here’s the thing.
We-We have fireworks
at Christmas now...
because that’s
what they do in Colombia.
I don’t mind.
Thanksgiving–
That used to be me
roasting a turkey,
until the gays took it over
with whatever new
turkey cooking craze...
it is that you saw
on the Food Network,
and I’m fine with that too.
All I ask– all I ask–
is that you leave me
Halloween. Yeah, Halloween.
I realize it is a crazy-ass
holiday for a grown woman
to care about this much,
but it is my crazy-ass holiday.
Mine.
[ Footsteps Departing ]
That’s a lot of complaining
from somebody...
who asked for thirds
of our tandoori turkey
last year.
Claire–
No!
No, not ready to talk!
No.
[ Clears Throat ]
Listen.
I know I haven’t
been much help today.
That whole
Jerry and Judy thing,
it really hit me hard.
Is that why you’ve been
acting like such a nut all day?
You know, what if
someday that’s us?
Honey–
Look, you might not want
to hear this right now,
after the meltdown
I just had in there,
but you’re kinda stuck with me.
You promise?
Oh.
I do.
[ Chuckles ]
- [ Laughing ]
- Oh. Oh, great.
[ Children ]
Trick or treat!
We should just put out
a bowl of candy
and have a cocktail, right?
Yeah.
[ Manny ]
Come in, if you dare.
[ Luke ]
Thank you for joining us
on our special night.
- [ Haley ] Other children
haven’t fared so well.
- Hey.
[ Alex ]
Help me! Help me!
She’s doing it.
- [ Gloria ] Welcome
to your nightmare, muchachos!
- No! No.
[ Children Scream ]
[ Haley ]
With all this fog,
it might be hard to see ahead.
[ Cameron ]
Aaah!
[ Children Scream ]
[ Laughing ]
Yeah!
[ Cackling ]
[ Screaming ]
Wow.
We’re back in the game.
Let’s go.
I love it! I love it!
[ Skeleton Shrieking ]
Aah! That was for you.
That was for you.
No, it wasn’t.
I did it for you.
Oh, and one time she says,
"Don’t choke,
or I’ll have to give you
the Hindenburg maneuver."
One time she
caught me staring
off and she goes,
"Cam,
what’s wrong?
You look like
a deer
in head lice."
[ All Laughing ]
In the service, I had a job–
briefly– handling explosives,
which sounds dangerous, but
it’s not.
You store them at the right
temperature,
you have no problems–
If you tell her
she doesn’t have a choice,
she’ll say "Don’t you give me
an old tomato."
Or when she’s–
Okay, enough!
You try speaking in another
language!
Everybody out of my house!
Until you do.